---
layout: post
title:  "Day 1"
author: "Geoff"
---

So it begins.

I've made a promise to myself to learn how to code in earnest. After several years of working almost exclusively at a content management level, I'm now ready to dive deep in the fundamentals of web development.

I must have spent several months to a year twiddling my thumbs and wondering two things: 1) What should I learn; and 2) Where to even begin. It is a blessing and a curse to begin learning in today's environment — there are just <em>so</em> many resources available. To start, I defined my roadmap by taking inventory on what I (thought I) knew already: HTML and CSS. After working with those languages in a professional setting for more than five years, I had the notion that I was already fluent in them. Oh, how I was wrong.

An assignment I completed today was to rebuild the Google Homepage. <a href="https://fotobomu.github.io/google-homepage/">You can view it here</a>. This was a rather humbling experience. Indeed I used the Bootstrap framework which solved a few headaches. However, altering the CSS to make my homepage look <em>exactly</em> like Google's required trial and error. In fact, the version you see right now still breaks in certain parts (e.g. the "Google search" and "I'm Feeling Lucky" buttons are falling into the wrong places past the breakpoint).

I realize that I have a long road ahead of me. The destination (wherever that may be, I don't know yet) seems far-off. But I will continue to strive for coding every day, learning as much as I can, and building my confidence as a web developer in-training.

Lastly, I challenged myself to start this blog as a way to document my progress. I could have easily made a simple WordPress site, but I wanted to take it a step further. This blog is built on Jekyll and GitHub pages! It took a few tries, but I finally got it.
